# Running Tests


**In Short:** To run tests, invoke cmake with ``-DTESTING=ON`` then build and run tests with ``ctest``.


Example with MinGW on windows:
```
cmake -DTESTING=ON -G "MinGW Makefiles" . -B build
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build/tests
```
----------------


### Explaination
Cmake configure command:
```
cmake -DTESTING=ON -G "MinGW Makefiles" . -B build
```
* ``-DTESTING=ON`` Sets the CMake variable ``TESTING`` to ``ON``. This is a custom variable used in CMakeLists.txt file to enable or disable testing.
* ``-G "MinGW Makefiles"`` Specifies the CMake generator to use. In this case, it's set to ``MinGW Makefiles``, to generate Makefiles suitable for the MinGW compiler.
* ``.`` Indicates the source directory where CMakeLists.txt file is located.
* ``-B build`` Specifies the build directory. The build directory is where CMake will generate the build system files (e.g., Makefiles) and where the build process will take place.
------------------


```
cmake --build build
```
* ``--build build`` Initiates the build process using the build system files generated by CMake in the specified build directory (build). This command will invoke the appropriate build tool (e.g., make for MinGW Makefiles) to compile and link the project.
------------------

```
ctest --test-dir build/test
```
* ``--test-dir build/tests`` Specifies the directory where CTest will look for test executables. This is often set to a specific directory within the build directory where tests are located.
* ``ctest`` Invokes the CTest testing tool. It will discover and run tests based on the testing configurations in your CMake project.

**These commands assume that your project has tests located in the specified test directory. The exact structure and setup of your project may vary.**